Advanced Stats Spec

Rk -- Rank
Pos -- Position
Age -- Player's age on February 1 of the season
Tm -- Team
G -- Games
MP -- Minutes Played


PER -- Player Efficiency Rating <link:- https://www.espn.com/nba/columns/story?columnist=hollinger_john&id=2850240>
A measure of per-minute production standardized such that the league average is 15. IS a PER MINUTE STAT, not a PER 36 MIN STAT.
TS% -- True Shooting Percentage
A measure of shooting efficiency that takes into account 2-point field goals, 3-point field goals, and free throws.
FTr -- Free Throw Attempt Rate-- Keep since transformation takes into account time that they were on the pitch
Number of FT Attempts Per FG Attempt
ORB% -- Offensive Rebound Percentage-- Keep since transformation takes into account time that they were on the pitch
An estimate of the percentage of available offensive rebounds a player grabbed while they were on the floor.
DRB% -- Defensive Rebound Percentage-- Keep since transformation takes into account time that they were on the pitch
An estimate of the percentage of available defensive rebounds a player grabbed while they were on the floor.
TRB% -- Total Rebound Percentage-- Keep since transformation takes into account time that they were on the pitch
An estimate of the percentage of available rebounds a player grabbed while they were on the floor.
AST% -- Assist Percentage-- Keep since transformation takes into account time that they were on the pitch
An estimate of the percentage of teammate field goals a player assisted while they were on the floor.
STL% -- Steal Percentage-- Keep since transformation takes into account time that they were on the pitch
An estimate of the percentage of opponent possessions that end with a steal by the player while they were on the floor.
BLK% -- Block Percentage -- Keep since transformation takes into account time that they were on the pitch
An estimate of the percentage of opponent two-point field goal attempts blocked by the player while they were on the floor.
USG% -- Usage Percentage -- Metric to gauge player effectiveness to team structure. Keep.
An estimate of the percentage of team plays used by a player while they were on the floor.
TOV% -- Turnover Percentage -- can keep since we have turnovers per game and per 36 min. Delete the other two
An estimate of turnovers committed per 100 plays.
WS -- Win Shares-- Keep, since encompasses OWS and DWS <Link:- https://www.basketball-reference.com/about/ws.html>
An estimate of the number of wins contributed by a player.
BPM -- Box Plus/Minus -- Keep, since encompasses OBPM and DBPM
A box score estimate of the points per 100 possessions a player contributed above a league-average player, translated to an average team.
VORP -- Value over Replacement Player -- Keep as metric is a transformation of features of player value by points.
A box score estimate of the points per 100 TEAM possessions that a player contributed above a replacement-level (-2.0) player, translated to an average team and prorated to an 82-game season. Multiply by 2.70 to convert to wins over replacement.


Features to be redacted from Advanced Feature Set
---
3PAr -- 3-Point Attempt Rate -- delete since TS% encompasses information
Percentage of FG Attempts from 3-Point Range

OWS -- Offensive Win Shares-- do not Keep
An estimate of the number of wins contributed by a player due to offense.

DWS -- Defensive Win Shares-- do not Keep
An estimate of the number of wins contributed by a player due to defense.

WS/48 -- Win Shares Per 48 Minutes -- Do not keep since we have WS.
An estimate of the number of wins contributed by a player per 48 minutes (league average is approximately .100)

OBPM -- Offensive Box Plus/Minus -- do not keep
A box score estimate of the offensive points per 100 possessions a player contributed above a league-average player, translated to an average team.

DBPM -- Defensive Box Plus/Minus -- do not keep
A box score estimate of the defensive points per 100 possessions a player contributed above a league-average player, translated to an average team.
---